All right, auth is looking good.
So we got our all form,
we got our auth pages.
Now we just need to make the API functions
that are gonna use these auth libraries,
so our auth form on our auth pages can
make an API request to register and
sign in, and
then they can finally get into our app.
So let's do that next.
So for the API routes,
we're gonna make one for /register,
which is exactly what it sounds like.
It's for registering.
And we're gonna make one for sign in.
So let's start with register first.
So we're gonna head over to
the pages directory, pages/API.
We're gonna make them for register.
And hence, we're gonna exports
default async function,
so I'll call it register,
like that, request, response.
There we go.
So we've kind of distinct about
the strategy of register, and
like what is the purpose,
what is it going to do?
Well, first it's just gonna check
to see if we're in a POST request,
just to make sure that
we're only handling that.
And then it's just going to
attempt to create a user here.
So you might ask yourself, well, why would
we try to create a user without verifying
if the user's in the database already?
Well, that's because we're juts gonna
leave that to our schema constraints to
do that for us.
Our schema has a constraint
on unique email, so
if you try to create a user with
the same email, it won't let you.
So we don't have to do that check first.
That's the whole point
of a unique constraint.
So this will fail if there's
already user of this email.
So that's done.
So we'll try to create a user
with a hashed password, and
with the first name and the last name.
And then from there, if that's successful,
we'll create a JSON Web Token from
that user and set it as a cookie, and
send back a response of nothing
pretty much, just 201 success.
And that's the strategy of the register.
So let's do that.
If you want to be able to use some
of the hints for the type checking,
you can import the next API request the
next API response interfaces from Next.
If you wanna get some of that nice type
checking, which is actually kinda useful
for these objects, so
I'm actually gonna import those.
So let's say, was it next/server, or no?
No, it's just next now, like consolidated.
So nextAPiRequest, nextAPiResponse,
and you get to put them there.
There we go.
So we'll say, if req.method, and
now we got that type check stuff there,
POST, make sure it's all caps.
If you put lowercase post,
that's never gonna be true.
It's always all caps.
So if it's a POST,
we're going to create a user, awaits,
we're gonna bring in our db.user.create,
like that.
Where our data, email, it's gonna
be req.body.email, like that.
Password is gonna be req.body.password.
No, we can't put a plain
text password on database.
That's right,
we made a hashing function to do that.
So let's bring that in.
So we'll say,
await hashPassword, like that.
And then we can say req.body.password.
So if you're looking at me like,
why did I, or
how did I put in await
on a field like that?
Yeah, you could do that.
You could put in await pretty
much wherever you want.
This works.
The only problem with this is like, how do
you properly handle that specific error?
You can't put a try catch right here.
So you won't be able to get down to
just handling that granular error.
You can handle this whole statement
by putting a try catch here, but
not just this specific one.
But yeah, you could totally do this.
This works.
That's the beauty of async await, is you
can pretty much use it anywhere you would
use synchronous code, it works the same.
So, all right, so we got that, first name,
req.body.first name, And last name.
And you can see we're
getting the autocomplete for
the property still because Prisma knows
that a user has a first name, last name,
password, email, they're all required.
So it's it's doing that for me.
There we go.
And then from there, what we wanna
do is create a JSON Web Token
using that utility method that we made.
So let's do that.
We'll say, jwt =await, it's async,
createJWT, pass in user.
Now we have a jwt.
And then what are we
gonna do with that jwt?
Do you remember where I
said we're gonna save it?
That's the type of food.
>> Cookie.
>> Cookie, yeah,
we're gonna save it in a cookie.
That's right.
So let's do that.
So we have this, yes?
>> Why not local storage?
>> Good question.
The question is, why not local storage?
The reason we're not gonna do it
in local storage is two reasons.
One, if it's in local storage,
then you, on the client side,
are responsible for writing the code
that goes into local storage,
attaching it to a header, and
sending it on every single request.
So I didn't feel like doing that.
That's one reason.
[LAUGH] Two, we're actually
gonna use Next.js middleware,
which runs on the Edge.
So before our server to
verify JSON Web Tokens.
And that environment on the Edge,
which is outside of your computer,
does not have access to local storage.
So there's no way that it could look in
local storage to grab something and check
it, which, yes, you could just attach
it yourself to the headers and stuff.
But going back to Reason 1,
I didn't feel like doing that.
So that's why we're gonna use
cookies because it is less work.
It's pretty much automatic cuz cookies
get sent at every single request, and
because of middleware.
So all those things.
But local storage is a viable option.
I use local storage all the time when
I'm just doing client side apps with
some separate API somewhere.
So totally fine.
All right, so we just wanna do, there's a
set header method on the response object.
So we'll just do that.
So you setHeader.
And when you pass the set cookie header,
you're telling
the browser when it gets the response
back to set these cookies.
So that's what we're gonna do.
So we're gonna say setHeader,
Set-Cookie, like that.
And then we're gonna use this
serialized method from cookie.
I don't know if it should
automatically import it.
Let's see, I would imagine a serializer is
such a proper name in all the stuff here.
Yeah, I'm just gonna have to,
it's not gonna be that far away.
So we'll import it from cookie,
serialize, Like that.
And these things, forget about them.
Probably I don't have it installed.
I'm gonna install cookie.
You might not have it installed either.
>> What's the types again?
>> Is it a types again?
It is the types.
I don't know why,
I thought it was automatic.
Cool, all right, got our types.
So we got to serialize here.
And serialize basically just takes
from the name of the cookie, which for
us is gonna be
process.env.COOKIE_NAME like that.
And then the options for
the cookie that you wanna set.
I couldn't spell process right.
So for us, our options are gonna be,
One, this is the cookie value itself.
So I guess we got to pass it
as a second argument, but
the third argument is the options.
So I'll just copy those,
cuz it's not easy to do that.
So pass the jwt as a second argument.
And then for these options,
we're going to,
one, set the expiration dates.
Make sure it's HTTP only,
which basically means you can't
access the cookies using JavaScript.
They're only processed
through the network on HTTP.
You cannot touch them.
We're basically saying, for this path,
this URL, not some other URL.
And then how long does it live?
Which is basically a week.
I gave it the same time as the expiration
date of the JSON Web Token so
they are kinda in at the same time.
And this thing's just freaking out because
it doesn't know if it's a string or not.
Any questions on that?
Okay, so once we do that,
we can set a status here.
I have 201,
which specifically means successful post.
Good job.
And then I'm just gonna end it.
I don't need to see any thing back,
at least not in the app that I have made.
You could have just send the user
back here after they sign up and
give them the user updates, so they
don't have to eventually come back and
make a round trip and
get the user object anyway.
That's totally fine.
But I think in this world where we're
moving towards, only making the request
that that specific component needs and
not trying to make a request.
Like you know back in the day, [LAUGH] I'm
saying back in the day like this is a long
time ago, this was not that long ago.
But you would anticipate the data that you
were gonna need and you would grab it, and
then you would store it in Redux.
Or you would store it in
some like local cache, and
then by time that page got there,
you already had the data.
And that was an optimization.
Okay, we're moving away from that because
getting data is becoming free now.
Because as you see with
the server component,
we don't even need to cross the network
to get the data, it's just there.
So we don't need to make up
these waterfall optimizations,
like getting this data, and
then getting this and then getting this.
We can just get it when we need it,
and only when we need it,
because it's becoming free,
as in, not such a burden.
So I'm moving towards that direction.
So I'm not sending the user back because
the off form doesn't need the user object.
So I'm not sending it back.